[ADD] automation chapter (#86)
virtualidentityag/dev-fe-onboarding: src/automation.md

# Automation Process

> Level: *Skilled Gorilla*

Reviewer: Just call it "Groovie Gorilla" :)

## Preparation

> Developer and operations are no longer the exclusive responsibility of DevOps engineers alone. Today, Frontend Developers help to reshape the form and the way process occurs within their projects improving collaboration between Frontends, Backends, and Stakeholders itself. <br/>

Reviewer 2: You create a line break in Markdown by adding double spaces at the end of the line, instead of `<br/>`.

Example:
This  
sentence  
should  
be  
broke  
into  
separate  
words  
per  
line.

Source:
```md
This  
sentence  
should  
be  
broke  
into  
separate  
words  
per  
line.
```

> Developer and operations are no longer the exclusive responsibility of DevOps engineers alone. Today, Frontend Developers help to reshape the form and the way process occurs within their projects improving collaboration between Frontends, Backends, and Stakeholders itself. <br/>

Author: Sorry, didn't get it

> Developer and operations are no longer the exclusive responsibility of DevOps engineers alone. Today, Frontend Developers help to reshape the form and the way process occurs within their projects improving collaboration between Frontends, Backends, and Stakeholders itself. <br/>

Reviewer 2: I was just saying that in Markdown double spaces (`  `) will be transformed into `<br/>`.
If you select the "source" text you will notice the extra spaces at the end of every line.

> They also help improve deployment rates, bug detection, and flawless feature delivery. Originally, the idea of testing, building, authenticating and deploying softwares can be done in a more smoothly and automatically way by implementing principles of **Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery** (CI/CD, for short).<br/>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Testing, building, authenticating and deploying software can be done in a more smooth and automatic way by implementing principles of **Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery** (CI/CD, for short).<br/>
```

Automation tools like Jenkins or Github Actions make it simpler to bootstrap the workflow you want and to seamlessly integrate on your project of preference. Since 2019, **VI** uses Github to maintain its codebase, so this topic will be more focused on how to understand and create your own Github Actions.

## Introducing GitHub Actions

> GitHub Actions is a flexible and scalable way of automating every aspect of your team's software workflow on your project, like:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
GitHub Actions is a flexible and scalable way of automating every aspect of your team's software workflow, as in:
```

  - Automated Testing (CI)
  - Continuous Delivery and Deployment
  - Responding to workflow triggers (issues, @mentions, labels and much more)
  - Triggering code reviews
  - Managing Branches
  - Triggering Issues and PR's

In this chapter, we're going to understand how they work, and how to create your own.

## Actions and Workflows

There are two components to use GitHub Actions:
  - The action itself
  - A workflow that uses actions

A workflow can have as many actions as needed and each action has it's own purpose.

### Types of Actions

Actions come in two flavours: **"Container Actions and JavaScript Actions"**

#### Container Actions

> Docker Container actions have the advantage to be packaged with the GitHub Actions code and can only execute in the **GitHub-Hosted Linux Environment**. The development of this type of action requires a previous understanding of how Docker works. For more information click [here](https://help.github.com/en/actions/automating-your-workflow-with-github-actions/creating-a-docker-container-action)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Docker Container actions have the advantage of being packaged with the GitHub Actions code and can only execute in the **GitHub-Hosted Linux Environment**. The development of this type of action requires a previous understanding of how Docker works. For more information click [here](https://help.github.com/en/actions/automating-your-workflow-with-github-actions/creating-a-docker-container-action)
```

#### Javascript Actions

> It is the same as above, but with the environment decoupled from Github allowing faster execution but also accepting great dependency management responsability. For this onboarding document, let's focus on this type of Action, and straight to work!

Reviewer: @pmpinto you can add a suggestion using github, which we can then directly use, instead of @tiagoaguiar31 makeing all the changes by himself ;)

> It is the same as above, but with the environment decoupled from Github allowing faster execution but also accepting great dependency management responsability. For this onboarding document, let's focus on this type of Action, and straight to work!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is the same as above, but with the environment decoupled from Github allowing faster execution but also accepting great dependency management responsability. For this onboarding document, let's focus on this type of Action, and get straight to work!
```

## Start your workflow file

On your repository create a ```.github/workflows/main.yml``` file and add the following code inside:

> ```sh

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't this be `yml` instead of `sh`? Same for L61 and L88.

```yml
name: Hello world
on: hi
```

name: My Simple Workflow
on: push
```

> Feeling lost ? Don't worry, I will tell you what you did!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Feeling lost? Don't worry, I will tell you what you did!
```

> ```name``` gives you the workflow name. This name will appear on each and every Pull Request or in your Actions Tab. Rename it whatever you want! It's really important when you have multiple workflows on your repository. <br/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```name``` sets the workflow name. This name will appear on each and every Pull Request or in your Actions Tab. Rename it whatever you want! It's really important when you have multiple workflows on your repository. <br/>
```

```on: push``` means that your workflow will only execute when code is pushed in your repository. i.e, using the ```push``` event.

> It doesn't seem much, right ? So let's add some more jobs to this workflow! 💼

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It doesn't seem much, right? So let's add some more jobs to this workflow! 💼
```

Inside your ```./github/workflows/main.yml``` append:

```sh
jobs:
  build:
    name: My Simple Workflow
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest    
    steps:
    - uses: actions/checkout@v1
      env:
        MY_NAME: "Skilled Gorilla"
```

Nice job so far! Let's get into more detail on what you just did:

> ```job``` is the base component of a workflow run <br />

Reviewer 2: Should it be `jobs` instead?

> ```build``` is the indentifier to where you're attaching this job<br />

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```build``` is the identifier of where you're attaching this job<br />
```

```name``` is the name of the job which will be displayed in your Actions tab when the workflow is running<br />
```steps``` the sequence of operations that make up a job<br />
```uses: actions/checkout@v1``` reference a community action called checkout and it's content's repository<br />
```env``` is used to specify the environment variables that will be available to your action in runtime<br />

## Keeping a secret 🗝️

The internet is a volatile thing, and sometimes you just need to keep information to yourself. If you don't feel like sharing your tokens, passwords or sensible information don't worry, I got you covered!<br/>

> On your project's navigation tab select **Settings** and them, on your left sidebar click on **Secrets**.

Reviewer 2: > and them,

Should be:
and then,

> The **Secrets** tab will show you a simple key/value pair where you can safely store all sensible information relevant to your project. To reference that on your workflow simply add:

Reviewer 2: > To reference that

Should be:
To reference these

Reviewer 2: I would personally do something like:

> ...simply add a `TOKEN` value, like so:

This way we are clearly pointing the user to the portion that matters to them.

```sh
jobs:
  build:
    name: My Simple Workflow
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest    
    steps:
    - uses: actions/checkout@v1
      env:
        MY_NAME: "Skilled Gorilla"
        TOKEN: ${{secrets.MY_SUPER_SECRET_STORED_KEY}}
```

> If this section stimulated your curiosity and you want to find out more, click [here](https://help.github.com/en/actions/automating-your-workflow-with-github-actions/creating-a-javascript-action)<br>

Reviewer 2: Missing `.` at the end of the sentence.

> Still don't know how this .yml works ? click [here](https://www.codeproject.com/Articles/1214409/Learn-YAML-in-five-minutes)

Reviewer 2: Remove space before `?`.

Reviewer 2: Missing `.` at the end of the line.
